We're talking to Elmore Leonard, and it's May 25th, which happens to be my 52nd birthday.
Oh, you know, Shakespeare died on his 52nd birthday, you know.
He did.
Yeah, April 23rd, 1516.
So don't think I haven't been looking at this day with a degree of dread.
1516, right?
1516, yeah, he was 52 on his April 23rd.
But anyway...
I'm really, I think this is, I've got about 50 pages to go, but I'm really thinking this is as good a No More Leonard as I've read in a long time.
It's terrific.
Yeah, you know, and it's funny when people have said that about this book.
I don't see anything different about it.
You know, I think, oh my God, people are going to say, well, he's doing the same thing.
He's working the same ground, the same types of people.
Yeah.
And I said, well, they are, but I changed their names, of course, in each book.
But they're the kind of people I enjoy.
I get a Hispanic, and I get a black guy, and I get an A-seed, and get them talking, and away we go.
Well, but I have a feeling about this guy, Raylan.
I mean, he took over the last novel.
He took over because...
He took over because I thought Harry Arnold was going to be the main character.
Well, it started that way.
Yeah.
They turned out to be a drunk captain.
Well, he got to Italy, and the weather, it was colder than he expected.
And this wasn't planned, you see.
He gets to Italy, where he's been dying to retire to for, what, 25 years or more than that.
More than that.
More than that, since 45, yeah.
and uh 40 something years and he gets there and it isn't the way he expected it would be and he begins to moan and groan and starts to drink and I thought I can't go another in the manuscript I can't go another 250 pages with this guy so I better bring Raylan along and make him
the main character, and he was introduced like on page 40.
Oh, he was really a bumpkin at the beginning of the novel.
Yeah, yeah, he wasn't, I didn't know what I was going to do with him.
But he becomes a terrific investigator.
But then as soon as I realized that Raylan's going to have to carry the story, I went back and changed his background from western Kentucky to eastern Kentucky, the deep coal mine area.
That's important.
Yeah, because then it gave him a background, it gave him a
He had been exposed to violence.
And handled it very well, as most people.
That was Harlan County, I guess.
Harlan County, yeah.
And for the research then, I looked at that documentary, Bloody Harlan, that won an Oscar about, I don't know, 1972 or three or something like that, which covered that year-long coal mine strike.
So I gather clearly you like this guy.
Oh, yeah.
I can, I can, yeah, because, yeah, because my eight Westerns all had a guy like, like Raylan in them, you know?
But I mean, it's, it's curious.
You developed him in the previous novel because you didn't like the way Harry was going.
Yeah.
Like, I need something here.
We got to do something.
Right.
And this guy you create, he becomes so good.
And now Harry is just a shadow.
I mean, he's the reason for the investigation.
Right, right.
But he still has a personality.
He has a personality.
He's funny and he's smart.
Yeah.
And he's wise in his own way.
And he knows how to stay alive, certainly, which is important.
Yeah.
I mean, the golfer doesn't know how to stay alive.
No, no.
Tell me a little bit about this now, about Waylon.
I mean, you've had a couple of characters over the years that you've stuck with.
Yeah, yeah.
A couple of books.
There was a Jack Ryan who was in The Big Bounce, which was my first non-Western.
And then he was in... What was he in?
He was in Unknown Man No.
89...
And then Stick was in, what was he in?
Swag, but before that he was in... Swag, the switch?
No, that wasn't it.
No.
There they are.
That's all right.
I'll find it.
I got most of these.
Don't worry about it.
All right.
Anyway, so we've got Raylan here.
He's really, yes, the character has changed a little bit to a degree.
I mean, he is really a terrific investigator now, I think.
I mean, he's very good.
Yeah.
Because I don't do much investigating in any of my books when I have a cop in there.
You know, he's... Well, this guy's doing some serious investigating.
Yeah.
Go ahead, I'm sorry I interrupted you.
But, because I've only done one that you might call the procedural, City Primeval, where...
You're with the cops, and you're with the cops all the way through, you know?
And so, and he doesn't really do any investigating in Prado, so now when he is, now he's looking for somebody, he is investigating, so I have to, let's see him investigate, you know?
This Don character has some resonance from that other novel that you did that was kind of off the menu, so remember the one...
Touch?
Touch, yeah.
Touch.
I mean, she does have some gifts here.
A little, yeah, but you're not sure.
Right.
Yes, you're right.
There are times when she must be psychic.
Don't forget, I haven't finished.
I've got about 50 pages to go, but she does seem to have some... Yeah.
She's an incredibly propitious woman.
Of course, she knows a lot of other things.
She knows a lot of things, but, yeah, she picks up on the fact that
Maybe she guessed he was a coal miner.
Maybe.
I don't know.
But she was talking to Chip in one scene on the phone.
Oh, no, she's outside on the video camera right there.
But she says, she said to Chip, turn the light on.
I can't see you.
Ah.
Not right now.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have to, well, I had to do them.
You have to see him doing some police work if that's what he is, you know.
And he will cut corners, but he won't just walk into Gans' house.
Well, like the girlfriend has a hard time figuring out how he can shoot the guy.
Yeah.
But he can't walk in the house without a warning.
I mean, she can't seem to reconcile these parts of his character.
And he says, if you can't, then you can't.
And you don't know me.
I mean, this is.
But I seem to understand it perfectly.
Yeah, yeah.
But the thing is, yeah.
Yeah.
And I have a scene where he is talking to another cop.
Right.
And he asks the cop, have you ever shot anybody?
They both have shot two guys.
And you know when you have, they both agree, you know when you have to shoot somebody.
And, you know, so don't worry about it.
How do you know so much, I mean, about these cops?
I mean, do you talk with a lot of cops?
Do you ride with them?
Yeah, I talk to a young guy who's with Florida Department of Law Enforcement.
He's probably, I don't know, 36 years old now.
He had been a probation officer.
He had been with DEA.
Now he's FDLE.
And he has held a gun on a guy and thought he was going to probably have to shoot him.
But the guy finally put his gun down.
And he said he doesn't know a cop who has shot anyone who didn't feel ill after.
Physically.
Physically ill.
And the scam they're working on is pretty, actually, if you had some clever people, it's not a bad scam.
It might work.
You know, you had some guys that are dirty.
the money, and if you can reason with them.
I mean... Oh, I think it could have... You don't extract the money from the relatives, you extract the money from the individual.
Yeah, I think it could have worked.
And as Chip Gans says, you pick guys who are larcenous in themselves, or
Like the SNL guy, or Harry.
We don't really grieve at his passing either, do we?
Right, right, right.
But of course, the purpose of that, of the scene, is to show the viciousness of Bobby Dale.
The fact that, boy, you've got to watch it.
It raises the stakes to a very real level.
I think we all know what we're dealing with here.
Yeah.
My editor suggested...
She said, I'd like to see the bad guys do something bad early on, at least before page 100.
So I added a scene where Bobby Dale and Lewis are going into the grocery store.
Yeah.
And you don't know when that scene's over whether he cut the woman's finger off.
Or whether he killed her, too.
That's right.
Yeah.
And he doesn't tell Lewis when he gets out.
No, no.
That's right.
No.
And then he didn't even want the ring when he looked at it.
He left the ring.
That's right.
Yeah.
There was a scene in Glitz where what was the guy's name?
Vincent Mora.
He's up in the hotel room.
He's in bed with the woman when
the guy tries to kill him and shoots through the door or bangs the door open and fires some shots and runs and Vincent grabs his automatic and runs down the hall after him and down the stairs and he's outside in his underwear as the guy drives off and from her point of view looking down she sees him say something she sees the guy say something to Vincent and then Vincent comes back up and I didn't know what the guy
said to him i wanted i said to be pretty good line you know and i didn't have a good line that day so he didn't he didn't he didn't tell her what the guy said but there might have been some mention about the guy saying something to him but then i went on with the story and by then i i figured out what the guy said to him it's something about betting your why didn't you bet your underwear or something you know if you
and put it in later when he's talking to somebody else.
See?
You know, I never talk about these blurbs from other writers, but I think I will in this particular piece, because it really is, and writers I've talked to over the years, I mean, it must be something to have the kind of respect that you have from other writers, and it's so apparent.
I like that Pete Dexter blurb.
He says, Elmore Leonard makes me happy.
Isn't that nice?
I like his new book.
Have you read his new book?
I have it.
I haven't read it yet.
Yeah, it's good.
It's good.
It's very good.
He's really got the sense of the newspaper business in there.
And it's a flower set in Florida.
Yeah.
He kind of moved the action to Florida lately.
Well, yeah, but I'm 50 pages into a book.
And I was talking to my editor last month.
And I said, I want to move this story somewhere else.
And she said, why don't you take it back to Detroit?
I said, yeah, well, if I can see a way to do it, I will.
And so I've been plotting, not plotting, but I've been figuring out just an idea how to do it, and I'm going to do that.
Because there really is something unique about Detroit, isn't it?
There is.
How many people write about it, too?
No.
Lauren Esselman.
And it's pretty desolate now.
You know, there's no real color there, but perhaps that's what's colorful about it, that it's just kind of a dump.
Is that Detroit?
Yeah.
Oh, it's tough, yeah.
It's tough.
Oh, yeah.
South Florida.
You don't fool around with it.
No.
But the thing about Detroit downtown, it's deserted.
You know, there's nothing going on.
When I was out there a couple of years ago, there was a new stretcher.
from my own book, a nonfiction book, a guy was driving me around and he said, you should show me another major metropolitan city in the United States where the interstates are actually designed to go around, go through the city.
I mean, not to connect you with the city, to connect the suburbs to the suburbs.
I forget the name of the interstate we were driving, you know, one of these connectors, you know, how close the point.
Yeah, 696 probably.
Yeah.
There's no easy way to get into the city.
In fact, it's all concrete, so the city can't get out here.
It's really interesting how they really insulated themselves from the inner city.
Yeah, all the brand new buildings that you see in most big cities now are all out in the suburbs.
Except a city like this, in Detroit's case, all the major businesses have left, so there's no reason for a middle class.
That's right.
Yeah.
We drive around through Bloomfield Hills, and I wonder, what do all these people do, you know?
So, how many, what's the number now?
32.
You don't have any trouble, right, coming up with that?
Well, I don't worry about ideas, because I think you just, you have to stay, you have to keep your eyes open and stay current.
And my books really aren't topical, but I do try and keep up with what's going on.
A lot of the cardjacking references in here.
That's very definitely a phenomenon over the last couple of years.
And when you say the state attorneys, no way they're going to let a guy cop on cardjacking.
You really got to know how serious cardjacking is, especially in Florida.
Right.
To pick up on that.
Yeah, but I'm not going to go into any detail on it.
No, but I think we all know.
Yeah.
20, 30 years from now, though, they're going to say,
a reader's going to say, I don't know, who knows, but who cares?
I don't worry about that.
Do you have in your mind, I mean, are you competing with anybody?
No.
Oh, no, no, no.
Are you overly concerned about how you are regarded, you know, as a literary writer or genre writer?
No, no, no.
And I think...
Martin Amos, in his review in the Times, hit it on the head.
He said, he's a genre writer, you know?
That's what I am.
I write crime novels.
I used to write westerns.
But he's the best at what he does also.
I think he added that, too.
I mean, I think Amos also said, is this just the first one?
No.
But he said he has to go out and read them all.
Well, he's...
I've read in interviews with him, or interviews that he's written, he mentions me, and this is probably the, well now this is a review, but he's mentioned me several times before.
And I wondered, the first time was in Interview Magazine, and the writer asked him, who do you read in the United States?
And he said, Don DeLillo and El Moran.
I said, Don DeLillo, Jesus.
And Martin Amos and I, our styles couldn't be farther apart.
I mean, he uses a lot of words.
He's got a lot of... I didn't have him with him a couple of weeks ago.
You did?
Yeah.
How old is he?
Better than I expected.
Yeah?
That's a very, that's a non-committal answer.
Well, I kind of know what you mean, dude.
I expected this kid with a sneer in his face.
Yeah?
And he was, you know, put the teeth were bothering him, by the way.
Oh, he had his teeth fixed, that's right.
Yeah.
But I had a very good interview with him.
I placed it in a lot of papers, and I got it in Milwaukee.
I have papers that take me every week, and then I also kind of do enterprise.
You know, like, I'll try to place this.
I will place this in a number of newspapers.
in addition to the ones that take my feature every week.
I've become kind of entrepreneurial about it.
Are you going to Milwaukee, for instance?
No, no.
You know, I might be able to place this out in Milwaukee.
Uh-huh.
But we'll see.
Yeah, my daughter went to school at Marquette.
Is that right?
Yeah.
And I have a granddaughter, in fact, at Marquette right now.
Well, Grand Rapids takes me a couple times a month.
Yeah.
So for sure I'll be able to live in Grand Rapids.
So we were talking about, you know, this sense of literary standing and all this, you don't have any, that kind of stuff doesn't enter your mind at all.
Oh, no, no, uh-uh.
No, and I'm not that involved with other writers or writers' groups, and lately I've had to go to New York for Mystery Writers of America functions.
because I was a president a few years ago, and then the next year I was a Grand Master, got the Grand Master Award.
And then this year, I was the chairman of the Grand Master Committee, and I selected three guys or four guys that I knew liked Mickey Spillane a lot, and we worked it so that Mickey Spillane got it.
That's kind of like a Lifetime Achievement Award, right?
Yeah, yeah.
You've got to be... Tony Hillerman says it's...
You join the over-the-hill gang, then, with that.
Well, over-the-hill baloney.
But you do have to have been doing it for a while.
It's not for the novice.
It's not rookie of the year, let's put it that way.
Yeah.
So that's the only association I have, really, with other writers.
Once in a while, I'll go to a writer's conference.
But I don't...
I don't sit around talking about writing.
I certainly don't go to these writers' clubs where they read their stuff to each other.
I don't believe in that.
Who do you read?
Well, I like short stories.
I read more short stories probably than novels.
Although, well lately I'd say like Cormac McCarthy.
I think he's great.
The last two horse books that he did.
Who else?
A crime novel, Dirty White Boys.
Did you read that?
No.
That's a good book.
I love that.
Can't think of his name.
It's a real violent, violent book.
Not as violent as it could be.
No, this isn't violent.
I've only seen one so far.
No, no.
No, I try and make my violence when somebody shoots somebody a little unexpected, and usually I just say, shot him, you know, let it go at that.
When Bobby goes in and does the golf with King there, that's violence.
I think we know that's what's going to happen.
Oh, did you?
Yeah, well, I thought.
Well, he, because we're watching... Well, that's a tribute, I think, to your writing, too.
I think it was in character for him to go in and do it.
Well, we're watching it on TV, and I think Lewis is now going to go in and beat him up.
Well, you set it up, and you said they watched, and what they saw was this.
As soon as I saw that colon there, I knew the description.
Well, you're a writer.
I'm looking at craft here, and I think...
He's going to remove himself from just a tad now so he can describe what they see on the TV screen.
I thought it was very cleverly done.
Yeah.
It was very nicely done.
You started off, you said earlier, as a writer of Westerns.
Mm-hmm.
And several of which I believe were made into films, right?
Yeah.
310 to Yuma, Hombre, Valdez is Coming, The Tall Tee, Joe Kidd.
That was an original screenplay for Eastwood.
And so you just made the move?
I had to because... Did you consider yourself a writer of Westerns?
I mean, were you Louis L'Amour from Detroit at that point?
There was no... I thought I wrote pretty good Westerns.
What I'm saying is you just made the move like that.
Well, I made the move because the market dried up for Westerns because of TV.
All the Westerns were on TV.
There were no more... By 59, 60, there were very few Western movies.
And all the pulps were gone by then.
Dime Western, Zane Gray Western, they were paying two cents a word.
So you could always send them 5,000 words and get 100 bucks.
See?
And I sold about 30 of those.
How long would it take you to do something like that?
A week or so.
Which wasn't bad in the 50s.
You know?
That's a lot of work for 100 bucks.
Because I wasn't, well, it's a lot of work, but I wasn't making.
$100 was a lot of money back in the 50s.
$100, that's $5,000.
I wasn't making $5,000.
I was making like $250 a month at an ad agency when I started out.
I started out, I was $125 a month.
I was their first, the agency, I can't believe all Chevrolet, I was their first married office boy.
And then I got raised to $135.
Then I got put into a traffic department.
I was making $250.
And I left and got a job as an ad writer and then came back 15 months later as a writer on Chevrolet.
This is up in Detroit.
Yeah.
So I wrote car ads for seven years.
As soon as my profit sharing came due, I left.
And so what prompted you to write your first Westerns?
I thought Westerns, I liked Westerns.
I mean, I like Western movies.
I didn't write, I hadn't read many Westerns
uh in the magazines outside of in saturday evening post i'd read cereals there once in a while in collier's so that the market was terrific the the highest paying magazines down through argosy blue book adventure and about a dozen different pulp titles dime western being the one and um and i started selling to them right away well not right
I wrote two stories, two westerns that didn't sell, then I decided I better do some research and get into it, and so I did.
And so you say the markets just dried up?
Yeah, and it was because of TV, but I didn't like any of the stuff on TV.
They were all the same.
All these guys were meeting in the street for the fast draw, which in my research,
I never came across.
It never happened, no.
So, and in all the westerns that I wrote, I never had that scene, ever.
Until I started writing the crime and police, then I can use it.
Now I can use that kind of a face-off situation.
It's kind of an echo of that.
Now that I think about it, in this book, when they talk about the gun, they talk about
When Raylan is out there with his thumbs, I guess he's thinking like maybe there'll be a shootout.
I bet you were thinking about some of those old westerns there.
Yeah, yeah.
Then Bobby Dale thinks, hey, I wonder what it would be like to face a guy.
That's right.
That's the scene.
So that it begins to be set up.
But that is kind of an echo, isn't it?
Sure.
You must have been thinking about that.
Yeah, and Raylan's got the hat.
And he's even thinking about growing a mustache.
Is this a nod in your mind?
Is Dutch Leonard making a nod to the old westerns?
In a way, yeah.
Are these character-driven novels?
Oh, I think so, definitely, because I don't start out with a plot.
Just a situation and the characters develop the story, definitely.
So where does this start now?
Does this kind of follow the last one pretty much as a continuum, let's say?
Well, you know, the first chapter...
appeared in New Yorker last summer.
I couldn't understand why they wanted... New Yorker?
Yeah, I couldn't understand.
The New Yorker was after me for a couple of years, and fiction editor would write to me and say, would like to see some of you.
And I'd write back and say, I don't write your stories.
I'd say, I write stories where the beginning, middle, and end to them.
Real stories, stories.
And I haven't written a short story in so long.
Chapter one now?
Yeah.
Do they say it in here?
No.
No, they don't say it.
And my original chapter one, when I started writing that book, is now chapter 10.
I wanted to start out with Raylan and Reverend Don.
But then... Really?
Yeah.
Raylan is looking for Harry.
So originally it started with Raylan looking for Harry.
Yeah.
What is now chapter 10?
Is Raylan going to see Don for the first time?
So then I thought, uh-oh, I'm going to have to...
Once I finished this first chapter with Dawn, now I'm going to have to do a lot of telling why he went to see Dawn.
And I thought, well, I can just do that in another chapter.
But then it got more complicated.
I thought, well, wait a minute.
I'm going to have to introduce these bad guys.
I can't tell about them.
You've got to see them.
You can take that too, please.
you can i don't want to what it amounted to that if i started with that chapter i'd be telling too much i have to i want to show and so that then i i had a few chapters here and then i finally i i added the first chapter just so that i could start with railing and be and because on um
the last book tour, or even previous book tours, since Maximum Bob, people would ask me, whatever happened to Dale Crowe, Jr.?
He took off in that Cadillac, and we haven't seen him since.
I said, I don't know.
I said, he'll probably get picked up.
So I thought, all right, I'll do it.
I didn't make that connection.
So I said, I'll do it for them.
Here's Dale Crowe, Jr.
I didn't make that connection with the last book, but there he was.
Oh, that's terrific.
So they are character-driven stories.
And let's just talk about, again, we were talking about the Westerns and that dried up.
So, I mean, was there any anxiety that you could do this?
I mean... Yes, indeed.
Because when I read, when I wrote 52 Pickup, which was, no...
No, the first one was the Big Bounce, the first non-Western.
But it wasn't urban.
It was up in the Thumb area of Michigan.
Which is in the news lately.
Yeah, yeah.
It was the next one, 52 Pickup, where I got a scene where this character's going to cross Woodward Avenue, up near Six Mile and Highland Park.
And I thought, jeez, there are hundreds of thousands of people.
who have walked across Woodland Avenue right here.
How do I do it?
I didn't feel that confident about describing the appearance, the mood.
I didn't know how to do it.
But this is when I was developing the idea of always writing from a point of view.
always from a character's point of view so that you carry his sound and and you carry his attitude so it's how he sees whatever it is i don't know if you've ever written in the first person has it one book hombre but not from the character's point from a minor character's point of view who's along for the ride so really only tried it that once yeah and
No, and I thought, oh, I don't want to be stuck with one point of view.
That'd be no fun.
That's why I've never had a continuing character, at least first-person continuing character.
That's very interesting.
And if you were to characterize an Elmore Leonard hero, if I were to characterize, there would be a guy that's got a few warts.
I mean, I've always the cleanest of the dirty.
In the old days, when he was
you're all out of socks and you're trying to find which one is the cleanest one when you're living alone, you know what I'm saying?
You remember a kid living alone and, you know, whatever I got, I haven't done my, that's not maybe a very good metaphor, but your guys, your heroes are not squeaky clean guys.
No, no.
I mean, they are, they would be known to
maybe prevaricate a little bit up the up the uh the street yeah and the cops will cut corners as they do you know it's funny because uh the the book freaky deaky was optioned and uh screenplay was written well before it was written the screenwriter i forgot his name came to see me and he said i want to know more about this uh this detective chris mankowski i want to know more about i said well
I said, everything you want to know about him is in the first chapter.
When these two guys, the two bomb squad guys, go out in the backyard and this guy's sitting on a chair that's rigged with dynamite.
And they tell him, don't get out from the chair.
We know you're fast.
We know you had a reputation when you were with the pony down guys who were dealing crack and heroin on the street.
And you see a cop car up.
You're gone, you know, but don't get out of that chair.
And then they go out in the backyard and they start talking about something else, and boom, the room blows up, you know.
And they keep continuing on talking.
They don't even... And I said, that's the guy.
He said, I can't write a scene like that.
The hero, he lets a person die?
I said, that's the guy.
I said, every cop I ever met would do the same thing.
you know do you still do much field work per se sure right around well not not looking like that no it's always specific because i have a researcher who does the hard work the the uh looking up in the in the files and all that and and on and uh find me a bail bondsman for example he'll talk to a half a dozen in in palm beach county before he comes up with the guy and then he finds out about the guy's business
And then I meet him and talk to him, spend a day with him.
Then I can call up the bail bondsman and ask him specific questions.
Accuracy obviously is very important to you.
Yeah, yeah, very important.
To get it down, right.
Do you hear from any readers that people write to you?
Oh, yeah, a lot.
A lot.
I mean, they say you got it right on.
Yeah.
I hear from, and I hear from critics.
I mean, people criticizing, criticizing my grammar.
And I tell them that if proper usage gets in the way, then it might have to go, that's all.
I don't want to interfere with the sound of the prose.
I don't want the reader ever to be aware of me.
Do you have an idea where these stories are going?
Or are they mentioned now in the last book?
That thing changed in mid-spring, clearly.
Yeah.
Harry was the main event, and all of a sudden you didn't like so much the way this guy was developing.
Has that pretty much happened routinely in your books?
It happens more with bringing characters in who I hadn't counted on being important.
But a character all of a sudden shows himself to be pretty interesting in the way he talks,
and he kind of pushes his way into the center of the plot.
A good example would be in Bandits, there was a Mosquito Indian from Nicaragua who didn't even have a name the first scene he's in.
And then I got to like the guy, and pretty soon he's, I think he was the only one in the book who shoots anybody.
Do you entertain yourself in the writing?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's... And the nice part about it is I'm the only one I have to please.
That's what's so nice about writing novels.
You know, well, by now I know my editor or I know the publisher's going to like it.
I know that.
But right from the beginning, this is the way I want to write.
And these are the kind of characters I want to develop.
So with the first one, The Big Bounce, it was rejected...
This was after my agent in Hollywood, Swanee, said, kiddo, I'm going to make you rich in 1966.
It was rejected 84 times.
How many?
84.
Most of them in Hollywood, maybe a dozen times in New York.
I'm going to make you rich.
So I felt great.
That's the most encouraging thing anyone's ever said to me.
Because I do, I did enter this with a commercial bent.
I want to make money doing this.
And I'm glad that I thank God that I'm a prose writer, not a poet.
You know, Jesus, what if I was just trying to sound?
So I have an opportunity to make a lot of money and have fun and please myself.
What's wrong with that?
Right, right.
But now screenwriting, that's something else.
Have you tried that?
Oh, I've done it a dozen times.
I've written a dozen movies or so.
From your own books?
Yeah, and one from somebody else's, The Rosary Murders.
That was another.
And Joe Kidd, the Eastwood movie, was an original.
Mr. Majestic with Bronson, that was an original screenplay.
But then I...
novelized it.
Oh, you mean the movie came first before I read the novel?
I never saw the film.
Yeah, yeah.
It's two different sets of skills.
Oh, yeah.
And I remember Swanee, my agent, then saying, well, now you're going to do this as a book.
He said, you're going to have to put a lot of description in there.
to fill it out.
I said, no, you don't write that way.
You write this way.
Dialogue.
You were just being what when you meant this way?
You're going horizontally, right?
Yeah.
And then you said, no, you went this way vertically.
Yeah, right.
And, you know, just put a lot of dialogue in, short exchanges that will get you more pages.
Not descriptions.
Do you have any favorites among your folks, personal favorites?
I like Freaky Deaky.
I like La Brava.
I like Kill Shot a lot.
And Quentin Tarantino is going to do that one.
He's got four of mine now.
He's got what?
Four of them.
Miramax optioned four.
Because when he, right after Reservoir Dogs, he wanted to do Rum Punch.
But he wasn't in a position to make a deal.
Because three years ago, that was about three years ago, when he was a teenager, he had stolen a book of mine.
He told this to my current agent, Michael Siegel.
He stole a book of mine, got caught, and his family, his mom and dad, grounded it.
He couldn't leave the house for a while or something.
He was a kid.
And when he got out, he bought the book.
And then Rum Punch comes out right after...
while he's in Hollywood with Reservoir Dogs, and he sees three of the characters from that book, The Switch, and he wanted to buy it.
But he wasn't set up to do that, and he had so many other things to do in the meantime.
So then, just about six months ago or so, Michael Siegel took five titles to him, and he read them, and he chose four of them.
Wow.
And Miramax optioned them.
Is it one deal or four separate deals?
It's, well, yeah, it's one deal, but then, of course, the payoff is as they... So did you see, this is not from my story, but did you see this thing with Forrest Gump, Winston Groom, telling him that the movie didn't make any money?
Oh, I believe that.
I believe that, sure.
I mean, I believe they told him that.
Yeah, and he was supposed to get 3% of the gross or whatever.
of the net or whatever, and they said, well, there's no profit.
Yeah.
And the Kings made about $400 million.
I know, I know.
I mean, they've all, it's in today's New York Times.
Well, for the longest time, who wrote The Godfather?
Mario Puzo.
didn't see any money from the godfather that had made i don't know how many hundreds of millions probably with accounting is the biggest oh yeah to get your money up front oh yeah that's my percentages that's what swanee's always said he said get as much as you can up front and then forget about it he said the only writer and he represented john o'hara he's the only guy who ever made any money on uh yeah and that was on butterfield eight
No kidding.
I don't know how he worked there.
I got a check once for $25,000 after Mr. Majestic had been out, I don't know, a few months or so.
I got a check for $25,000.
And I called Swanee and I said, what's this for?
He said, the picture's broken even.
That was in the contract.
You get a $25,000 bonus if they start to make money.
And this was because Walter Barish was the producer, and he's an honorable, honest man.
But for the most part, this would never happen.
No, that's right.
That's great.
If you read the Times, the New York Times, this story about Gump is in today's New York Times, but Winston Groom is saying, well, the movie didn't make any money.
I mean, this is one of the biggest movies of the last ten years.
Yeah.
Oscar-winning movie and all this.
Sure.
We had to spend so much with publicity.
Yeah.
All these numbers are flying around, and when you look at it, it's minus.
This thing's in the red.
Well, a big percentage of it goes just to studio overhead.
You know, like 15% or whatever.
It goes for the pictures that didn't make any money.
That's right.
Yeah.
Listen, I think we have plenty of stuff.
Could you sign a couple of these books for me?
Yeah.
One for me, one for my good buddy, who's a great fan.
Okay, go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Then we can get downstairs.
You know, it was interesting that the hook then for journalists was that I was an overnight success after 30 years.
And I think most journalists then thought I was, had been just slaving away and finally this is the breakthrough bit.
But I was always making money, you know, because I was always selling to Hollywood.
But I love this whole concept of overnight success, too.
Yeah, yeah.
Like he hadn't done anything before.
Yeah, the one guy asked me, a guy from CBC in Toronto, he said, what's it like, success coming at your age?
And it wasn't so much that the age, it was that his assumption that I hadn't been successful before.
But I'd sold everything I wrote, what do you have to do, you know?
Look, he has to have known that you...
I'm expecting this.
My first book.